# Project-1
Homelessness in North Carolina - Houston, do we have a problem?
In driving around Charlotte, I see homeless people at various street corners asking for help. Seeing these people makes me wonder … Why are these people homeless? Where do they go at night if they are homeless?  What happened to them that brought on their homelessness? How long have they been ‘living’ like this?  Are there programs and services to help these people?  What can I do to help some of these people? And a plethora of other questions come to mind.  Does Charlotte have a homelessness problem? In searching for data to answer this question, I ran into a brick wall.  
The dataset that I was eventually able to locate only drilled down as far as the state level, nothing specifically available about Charlotte or Mecklenburg County. The dataset I used in my graphs came from the Department of Housing and Urban Development: https://www.hud.gov/2019-point-in-time-estimates-of-homelessness-in-US
The file is a large excel workbook with separate sheets for each year from 2019 back to 2007.  Each sheet contained a row for each state and over 500 columns of data on homelessness in those states.  In my exploration and clean up process, I ran out of time in trying to use pandas to consolidate the original data set to just data for North Carolina for the most recent years. I chose to create a new Excel spreadsheet, copy and paste the row data for North Carolina into this new Excel spreadsheet and limit the columns to 8 columns about homelessness overall.  I then read that new Excel spreadsheet into my jupyter notebook as a csv file.  I used matplotlib to create my graphs based on the information in this much condensed data set.
The graphs tell a surprising story about homelessness in NC.   After looking at this data, I am left with more questions.  What factors impacted the sharp decrease in homelessness in North Carolina seen from 2013 through 2017?  Is this decrease in homelessness seen in North Carolina reflected in other states?  If so, which states and why?  What is causing the increase in homelessness we have seen since 2017?  With homelessness on the rise already, what effect will the current economic downturn we are living in have?  These are the questions I would explore if given more time on this project. 
